---
layout: post
title: Jenkins 2.0 and Multi-branch pipeline builds for iOS apps with Fastlane
comments: True
tags: technology, jenkins, ios, fastlane, ci, pipelines, github
summary: Jenkins 2.0 beta is out and has included a multi-branch pipeline plugin that allows automatic build of feature branches from Github. Here is how I set it up to build feature branch builds of our iOS apps
status: draft
---

[Jenkins 2.0](https://jenkins.io/2.0/) beta is now out. We’ve been using Jenkins for a while to run our automated build system for our iOS and Android app builds. I’ve written about this before:

- [iOS Deployment and Provisioning - Part I - Terminology](/2015/07/28/ios-deployment-part-1/)
- [I Love our Build System](/2015/08/05/i-love-our-build-system/)
- [iOS Deployment and Provisioning - Part II - Rational](/2015/08/15/ios-deployment-part-2/)
- [iOS Deployment and Provisioning - Part III - Tools in Detail - Fastlane](/2015/09/01/ios-deployment-part-3/)

One of the areas I’ve not gone into too much detail on is the Jenkins config itself. That was intended for Part IV of the series above, but I never got around to writing it. But in short we were just using Jenkins to run the Fastlane build when a change occurred on Github. Fastlane was responsible for all the actual heavy work.

We had three Jenkins jobs set up for each app:

- Production build and release
- Alpha build from the develop/ branch
- Alpha builds from the feature/* branches

The latter allowed us to have automated builds from any of the feature branches we had built automatically when code was pushed. The problem was that all of the different feature branches were built by that one single job. That meant that when a branch test/build failed it would mark the Jenkins job red, even though only a single branch had failed. It was then impossible to manually re-run a specific branch build. You had to push a trivial commit to Github on that branch to trigger it.

Jenkins 2.0 comes with the Multibranch Pipeline plugin. It was as though the Jenkins developers were reading my mind, as this is what they had to say about the inclusion of pipelines in Jenkins 2.0:

> *Problem*
>
> As organisations of all types seek to deliver high quality software faster, their use of Jenkins is extending beyond just continuous integration (CI) to continuous delivery (CD). In order to implement continuous delivery, teams need a flexible way to model, orchestrate and visualise their entire delivery pipeline.

> *Solution*
>
> Jenkins 2.0 supports delivery pipelines as a first-class entity. The Pipeline plugin introduces a domain-specific language (DSL) that helps Jenkins users to model their software delivery pipelines as code, which can be checked in and version-controlled along with the rest of their project’s source code.

So I thought I’d give it a try and see how we get on with it. One of the main changes is that the actual pipeline is written in a DSL in Groovy. I have a bit of a hate of DSLs for automation… they are a necessary evil, but can make things very difficult to understand to newcomers to the tool of they don’t already know the language inside out. I’ve battled Fastlane’s Ruby DSL and now I’ve battled Jenkin’s Groovy DSL.

To make it even harder the docs on the Jenkins Pipeline DSL are sparse and not very accurate. This is the curse of any fast-moving early-access project, so something that I hope will improve (and I’ll try and contribute back where I can).

Another issue is working out the best way to split the work between Fastlane and Jenkins. I’ve had to refactor our Fastlane config into a larger number of separate lanes in order to have each lane called as a separate pipeline stage. The idea ultimately is to be able to increase parallelism in the build process, and to allow the builds to be restarted at a particular point — e.g. due to something like a transient network error. Quite often the build of the app itself has succeeded but the upload to Hockey or TestFlight has failed at the end or timed out. I currently have to re-run the entire job (and hence it gets re-built and re-tested).